# Population_data_advanced_analytics
I took a random sample of 40 countries from the dataset of population data and ran the multiple linear regression model to determine the Infant mortality (Target variable and it is continuous). To diagnose collinearity, I have used correlation matrix and found that Infant Mortality is highly correlated with Female Literacy (negative correlated at -0.7787), Obesity adult prevalence % (negatively correlated at -0.6525), Democratic Score 2022 (negatively correlated at -0.5772), GDP per capita (-0.5478) and Gini index (0.4854). In addition, some other predictor variables listed below have strong correlation with Infant Mortality. However, these predictors are strong correlated (Electoral process 2022, Civil Liberties correlated at 0.95, Functioning of Govt (0.89) and Political Participation (0.83)) with another predictor Democratic Score 2022. So, I have used Democratic score 2022 in my final model instead of all those variables, thereby reducing the issue of Multicollinearity. 

I have used Female literacy, Obesity adult prevalence %, Democracy score 2022 and Gini index as predictors (removed GDP per capita as it is strong correlated with Democratic score (0.70)) which seems closely related to infant mortality in my sample of data. I decided to choose this as the final model as all the input predictors are significant for alpha = 0.2 (T-test) and 92% of variance in Infant mortality is explained by these four predictors. Adj R-square is 0.9045, which shows that model is a good fit for the sample data. This model is also useful with the test of joint significance (F-test). The y by yhat graph has random scatter about the line in linear pattern indicating the linear relationship, thus satisfying linearity. From the Residual (y-yhat) by yhat graph, the random scatter is not elliptically distributed around the line, indicating violation of equivariance. Normality from the histogram is in bell-shape curve and seems to be somewhat symmetric, we can also check normality from Residual vs Quantile graph and the random scatter is about the line, indicating that normality is approximately satisfied.

While running Rapid Predictor model, I omitted Democratic category, Civil Liberties, Electoral process 2022, Functioning of Govt and Political participation as they are strong correlated with Democratic score 2022. In addition, I have removed Name of the country and all other variables except Female Literacy, Obesity adult prevalence %, Democratic Score 2022 and Gini index. The Main effects Regression model is selected as final model as it has smallest Average Squared Error (179.159) for validation dataset when compared to other models. From the Rapid Predictor model, variables which are most important to predict Infant Mortality are Female Literacy, Obesity adult prevalence % and Democracy score 2022. 

To compare the goodness of fit for multiple regression model and the best Rapid Predictor Model, I have used RMSE value. RMSE for multiple regression model is 5.55 and for rapid predictor model is 13.38. As RMSE is less for multiple regression model, I am preferring multiple regression for my sample dataset. As per the studies, educated women are more informed about the nutritional regiment and medical practices needed to be adhered to during pre and post pregnancy stages, so infant mortality is comparatively less where female literacy is high. Our deduction from the model that Infant mortality is highly dependent on Female literacy and having strong negative correlation, supports this case.
